---
title: "My thoughts on OKLETSGO lewd remarks controversy part 2"
date: 2020-06-14T23:23:18+08:00
---

Here's a more [comprehensive article]([https://hypeandstuff.com/okletsgo-spotify-podcast-misogynstic-towards-women/](https://hypeandstuff.com/okletsgo-spotify-podcast-misogynstic-towards-women/)) with snippets of the audio that showcase examples of lewd comments. The evidence looks damning against OKLETSGO.

My personal favourite [nuanced take]([https://www.facebook.com/mysaraaljaru/posts/10157212098346961](https://www.facebook.com/mysaraaljaru/posts/10157212098346961)) is by Mysara. Let's break it down and take a look. Mysara's definition of misogyny is where the sexualisation, objectifying and violence towards women are normalised by both men and women. Regarding sexualisation and objectifying, aren't top female models paid a lot more than male models? I wonder how women will feel if such lucrative career options were to be dismantled. 

> What is also obvious is the lack of accountability from the hosts towards the reaction of their diehard fans, of which other than shaming, tell women they should be raped even.

This sounds like what happened to Cathy Newman after her Channel 4 interview with Jordan Peterson. She received a torrent of abuse from death threats to fake pornographic images of her being circulated. Mainstream media claims that Peterson's army of followers was responsible for it. He ended up urging tell his followers to "lay the hell off". My point is you never know if his followers were responsible for it, even though they had a vested interest to defend him. It does not look good on the hosts to do nothing, when presumably their fans are calling for rape. 

> Can the hosts be blamed for the reaction of the fans? “But they didn’t tell them to say that what…” one might argue, but the reaction of their fans is a reflection of the content they produce. You enable such behaviours. Like it or not, you have an audience and you should be responsible for the content and delivery.

I would like to elaborate on this, "...but the reaction of their fans is a reflection of the content they produce." I feel like the sentence is perhaps more pertinent to OLG, outside this context it's moot. The comments on FB are open to anyone who sees it, it's made harder for someone of Jordan Peterson following. It's actually unfortunate how popular he is because that shows the lack of role models in the lives of young men today. It's so sad how many men don't get the encouragement they need and live lonely, disillusioned lives. 

His lectures have been nothing but godsent to me and my friends. Despite that, his followers are often accused of sending death threats, rape threats and abusive messages. There are a few problems with this statement. How do you know they're his followers? In JBP's case, it actually sounds like a smearing campaign to me by the mainstream media. However, I agree that in Singapore's context their content may have a greater influence on their listeners. And yes, they should be responsible for moderating the FB page too. I think they should at least delete comments calling for rape and violence etc. 

> Calling critiques ‘haters’ is a rather immature way to address valid points targeted at your production, how does one take you seriously if that’s the reaction you put out?

Agreed

> If “no holds barred” are just men spewing their sexual fantasy about women they see, one might need to reconsider what they think as useful content for the community.

Agreed. Unfortunately, as Iylia Nurliyana (a commenter) has pointed out OLG seems to have established their own unique selling position which includes being lewd and vulgar. If this behaviour brings in the revenue, backlash and negative criticisms are necessary to force them to reexamine their brand voice. If they fail to deal with backlashes in a proper and appropriate manner, perhaps their business model isn't as sustainable as they once thought.

It's impressive how a lot of these "movements" towards reducing X (racism, sexism, misogyny) are not well-funded or well-equipped, yet they still manage to make such a huge impact to society. They appeal to a certain fairness and justice innate in us.